---
layout: event
title: "Journée d'études with Ana Lucia Araujo"
series: "Iberian Nights"
description: "You are invited for a day of study with renowned scholar Ana Lucia Araujo around the Atlantic History of Slavery and its Memory."
date: 2024-10-01
semester: Fall 2024
start-time: 10:30AM
end-time: 7:00PM
calendar: 20241001T103000/20241001T190000
location: "Daytime: HQ532; Evening: HQ134"
card: humans-in-shackles.jpg
banner: araujo.jpg
featuring:
  - Ana Lucia Araujo
with:
  - Marcela Echeverri Muñoz
  - Aurélie Vialette
  - Our Graduate Students
---

We invite you to join us for a day of study with renowned scholar Ana Lucia Araujo around the Atlantic History of Slavery and its Memory. The day will include a graduate student workshop, a conversation with Marcela Echeverri Muñoz and Aurélie Vialette, and an evening lecture by Ana Lucia Araujo.

### **10:30AM-12:00PM** | **HQ532**

#### Crossings: Graduate Student Workshop with Ana Lucia Araujo

In this session, Ana Lucia Araujo will workshop with graduate students the art of traversing genres, disciplines, geographies and time periods to produce original and engaging scholarship. We invite graduate students from our Department of Spanish & Portuguese, and across the Humanities and Social Sciences at Yale to participate in this workshop. In order to prepare for this workshop, we will read the chapter on "Sex and Violence," from her most recent book _[Humans in Shackles: An Atlantic History of Slavery](https://press.uchicago.edu/ucp/books/book/chicago/H/bo229867701.html)_ (Chicago Press, 2024). HQ532 has limited sitting, so we ask that you RSVP if you plan to attend. You only have to RSVP once.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center mt-3">
  <div class="col">
    <a href="/documents/araujo-ch10-sex-violence.pdf" class="card-link" target="_blank"><button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Download Reading</button></a> <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSftpHCQpaYUHF3fswSqE3B0GsZlbrx_Ux7uDq07ejLaOllnwQ/viewform?usp=sf_link" class="card-link" target="_blank"><button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">RSVP</button></a>
  </div>
</div>
<br>

### **12:00PM-1:00PM** | **HQ532**

#### Lunch Break

Lunch will be served for participants of the daytime seminars and invited guests. Please RSVP to ensure we have enough food for everyone.

<br>

### **1:00PM-2:30PM** | **HQ532**

#### On The Memory of Atlantic Slavery: Araujo, Echeverri Muñoz and Vialette in Conversation

In this early afternoon, Prof. [Marcela Echeverri Muñoz](https://history.yale.edu/people/marcela-echeverri-mu-oz) (History) and Prof. [Aurélie Vialette](https://span-port.yale.edu/people/aurelie-vialette) (Spanish & Portuguese) will join Prof. Ana Lucia Araujo in conversation on the history and memory of slavery in Spain and the Americas. Prof. Echeverri Muñoz will discuss her entry, "[Antislavery and Abolition in the Spanish American Mainland](https://oxfordre.com/latinamericanhistory/display/10.1093/acrefore/9780199366439.001.0001/acrefore-9780199366439-e-505)," from the _Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Latin American History_ (Oxford Press). Prof. Vialette will discuss the volume _[Cultural Legacies of Slavery in Modern Spain](https://sunypress.edu/Books/C/Cultural-Legacies-of-Slavery-in-Modern-Spain)_ edited in collaboration with Akiko Tsuchiya (SUNY Press, 2024). Prof. Vialette has asked us to read the "Introduction" to the volume, and her chapter, "Cosmetic of the Archive." Prof. Araujo in turn will respond to these interventions departing from Chapter 3 of _Humans in Shackles_, "Battles of Public Memory." HQ532 has limited sitting, so we ask that you RSVP if you plan to attend. You only have to RSVP once.

<div class="row justify-content-md-center mt-3">
  <div class="col">
    <a href="/documents/echeverri-vialette-araujo.pdf" class="card-link" target="_blank"><button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Download Readings</button></a> <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSftpHCQpaYUHF3fswSqE3B0GsZlbrx_Ux7uDq07ejLaOllnwQ/viewform?usp=sf_link" class="card-link" target="_blank"><button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">RSVP</button></a>
  </div>
</div>
<br>

### **5:30PM-7:00PM** | **HQ134**

#### Public Lecture with Ana Lucia Araujo

**Why We Need to Look at Africa and Brazil When Studying the History of Atlantic Slave Trade and Slavery**  
Drawing on her new book _Humans in Shackles: An Atlantic History of Slavery_, in this talk Ana Lucia Araujo will emphasize the need of looking at Africa and Brazil when studying the history of Atlantic slave trade and slavery, as well as the role of enslaved women in shaping slave societies and societies with slaves in the Americas. By doing so, Araujo illuminates the social, cultural, and religious lives of enslaved people working in plantations and urban areas, building families and cultivating affective ties, congregating and re-creating their cultures, and organizing rebellions. Through an approach centered on history and memory, Araujo also seeks to put the lived experiences of enslaved peoples at the center of this tragic story and open opportunities to investigate the heavy impact these atrocities have had on the current wealth disparity of the Americas and rampant anti-Black racism.

## About our Guest Scholar

Ana Lucia Araujo is a historian and Professor at the Department of History at the historically Black Howard University in Washington DC, United States. She specializes in the history and memory of slavery and the Atlantic slave trade and is interested in the visual and material culture of slavery. Her work has been funded by the Institute for Advanced Study (Princeton, NJ), the Getty Research Institute (Los Angeles, CA), the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and the American Philosophical Society. Her recent books are _The Gift: How Objects of Prestige Shaped the Atlantic Slave Trade and Colonialism_ (Cambridge University Press, 2023), and _Humans in Shackles: An Atlantic History of Slavery_ (University of Chicago Press, 2024). She is currently working on four different projects, including "The Power of Art: The World Black Artists Made in the Americas" (under contract with Cambridge University Press).
