---
layout: event
title: "Queer Iberian Intimacies"
series: "From Diss to Book"
description: "Join us to celebrate and discuss Esteban Crespo's well-defended dissertation."
date: 2025-02-04
semester: Spring 2025
start-time: 4:00PM
end-time: 6:00PM
calendar: 20250203T1600/20250203T1800
location: HQ 107
card: chairez-extasis.jpeg
banner: chairez-extasis.jpeg
featuring:
  - Esteban Crespo
with:
  - Greta LaFleur
  - Nicholas Jones
---

Join us to celebrate and discuss Esteban Crespo's well-defended dissertation, "Queer Iberian Intimacies: Constructing Early Modern Dissident Sexual Cultures." Esteban will be joined by Greta LaFleur and Nicholas Jones for a conversation about his doctoral work and the process of turning it into a book.

This is the first event of our new series, "From Diss to Book," which will feature recent PhD graduates from the Spanish and Portuguese Department at Yale University. The series will showcase the work of these scholars as they transition from the dissertation to the book manuscript. Each event will feature a conversation between the author and a faculty member or editor, followed by a Q&A session with the audience.

#### Preparing for the Event

If you would like to come prepared to dive right in, please read the introduction to Esteban's dissertation, which we're temporarily making available [here](/documents/crespo-diss-intro.pdf).

#### About our Alumnus

Esteban Crespo is a Transatlantic Literature and Cultures scholar, primarily focusing on gender and sexuality in the Early Modern Iberian worlds in relation to the history of the book, contemporary critical thought, and colonial studies. His research aims to strengthen the position of Iberian and Colonial Latin American Studies as fundamental interlocutors for Lesbian, Trans, Queer, and Gay Studies. His work has been supported by the Folger Library, Harvard’s Houghton Library, Yale’s Beinecke Library, the John Carter Brown Library, Yale’s Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, and the Renaissance Society of America. Esteban’s most recent scholarly contributions have appeared or are forthcoming in journals such as _Nueva Revista de Filología Hispánica_ or in edited books such as _Logomotives: Words that Change the Premodern World_ (Edinburgh University Press) and _The Routledge Companion to Race in Early Modern Artistic, Material, and Visual Production_. Esteban is also passionate about reaching audiences beyond academia through his writing and public speaking.

His first book project, ‘Queer Iberian Intimacies: Constructing Early Modern Dissident Sexual Cultures’, analyzes the presence of sexual and gender variance in the Iberian Peninsula and the viceroyalties of Mexico and Peru in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. This project argues, on the one hand, that early modern Iberian cultures incorporated dissident sexualities and gender variance in richer, more quotidian ways than only through policing systems, including mainstream culture. On the other, it demonstrates that such ways were ubiquitous on both sides of the Atlantic.

Esteban received his Ph.D. from the Yale Department of Spanish & Portuguese in 2024.
