---
layout: event
title: "The 3rd Night"
series: "Iberian Nights"
description: "Jeanne Rosine Abomo in conversation with Iliana Vásquez González."
date: 2023-09-27
start-time: 5:00PM
end-time: 7:00PM
calendar: 20230927T170000/20230927T190000
location: Humanities Quadrangle 276
card: arabesque.png
banner: abomo.jpg
featuring:
  - Jeanne Rosine Abomo
with:
  - Iliana Vásquez González
---

Join us for an evening with Jeanne Rosine Abomo (Washington University, Saint Louis) in conversation with Iliana Vásquez González (Yale University). Jeanne Rosine Abomo Edou is an afropolitan, a transcultural identity that makes her Fang-Beti by birth, Francophone by cultural assimilation, Hispanophone by intellectual curiosity, and English-speaking by academic conformity. Abomo and Vásquez will discuss Abomo’s past and current research on science fiction, utopic literarure and film, African critical theory, and trans-continental connections, always inching towards the fundamental question, How do we Anticipate the Glorious Future of Poscolonial Africa? Whitherto Wakanda?

---

### Iberian Nights

#### Book One: Literature and Survival

This series is inspired by the spirit of Sheherazade, Dhuoda, Christine de Pizan, Teresa de Cartagena, the pequeñas mujeres rojas and so many others for whom the practice of literature---in many of its facets---was the matter of survival. They existed in circumstances of physical and sexual violence, of civil war, of racial discrimination, of isolation; they also lived in circumstances that cannot be properly expressed outside their own experiments with literature.

Our guests write from many directions, for many audiences, for many souls. Novels, reviews, the lives of afrodescendent people, dance, race, sexual violences, asylum briefs, and so many other forms of polyhedric writing that explore the limits of literature---and those of survival. They will be in conversation about their work, about their thought and, certainly, about the joys and frustrations of the literary worlds they inhabit.
